README.md, before:

# **Wx AeroBrief**

## **[View the Live Website Here!]()** ##

![Image]()

## **Code Institute Milestone 2 Project - Interactive Frontend Development**

The project has been undertaken to build an efficient and simple weather briefing website for pilots. The site is named "Wx AeroBrief", where 'WX' is an abbreviation fo weather. The site aims to be a contrast to other aviation weather sites, where the content can be overwhelming and the user-interface outdated.

The site is broken down into two pages, the landing page and the briefing page. Both pages aim to intice the user to utilise the functions provided and display a professional but approachable user interface. The pages also cater for a user who may not be familiar with aviation terminology and therefore enables the user to learn more. 

Overall, the websites purpose is present the critical information needed for a weather brief in simple and digestable format.


# Table of Contents:

- [**UX**](#ux)
  * [User Stories](#user-stories)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Scope](#scope)
  * [Structure](#structure)
  * [Skeleton](#skeleton)
    + [**Wireframes**](#--wireframes--)
    + [**Changes to initial wireframes**](#--changes-to-initial-wireframes--)
  * [Surface](#surface)
- [**Features**](#features)
  * [1. Navigation](#1-navigation)
  * [2. Landing Page](#2-landing-page)
  * [3. Our Services](#3-our-services)
  * [4. Our Renewable Technology](#4-our-renewable-technology)
  * [5. About us / Meet the team](#5-about-us---meet-the-team)
  * [6. Get in touch](#6-get-in-touch)
  * [7. Future Features](#7-future-features)
- [**Technologies**](#technologies-used)
  * [Languages](#languages)
  * [Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies](#libraries--frameworks-and-technologies)
  * [Workspace and Version Control](#workspace-and-version-control)
- [**Testing**](#testing)
  * [Code Validators](#code-validators)
  * [Responsive Elements](#responsive-elements)
  * [UX User Story Test](#ux-user-story-test)
  * [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  * [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
  * [Github Pages Deployment:](#github-pages-deployment-)
  * [Forking The Repository:](#forking-the-repository-)
  * [Creating a local clone:](#creating-a-local-clone-)
- [**Credits**](#credits)
  * [Content](#content)
  * [Media](#media)
  * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


# **UX**
## User Stories
----------------
In this project there are three main groups of target users. They include professional pilots, training students and casual general users. The user stories for each group are defined below.

__Applicable to all users__
- As a user, I would like to understand the purpose of the website on landing on the page.
- As a user, I would like to get the information I require quickly and effectively.
- As a user, I require the information in standard industry format. ie in METAR and TAF.
- As a user, I need to be able to search for my relevant airfield.
- As a user, I would like to see additional data such as the location, to gain a greater situational awareness.
- As a user, the ability to email or print my brief is important.

__Professional Pilots__
- As a professional pilot, the ability to see the weather forecast is vital to safe operation of my flight.
- As a professional pilot, additional information about my airfield is important.
- As a professional pilot, I require information for a specific reporting point and not necessarily for a large region.

__Training and Students__
- As a student, I would like the ability to learn more about weather reports and standard industry practice.
- As a student, I am not as proficient in flying and require a set of rules to go flying. Knowing that condtions are safe for me to fly is vital.
- As a student, simple and disgestable content would be effective in my learning application.

__General user__
- As a general user, I do not need overwhelming amounts of content or and do not want to research how to read the weather.

__Returning Users__
- As a returning user, I would like to be able to quickly navigate to the briefing page.


## Strategy
----------------
__Project goals__


__User goals__ 



__Industry Research__



## Scope 
----------------



## Structure
----------------

The structure of the page is formed around a single page scrolling design, with fixed sticky navbar that collapses to burger menu on 
tablet and desktop. The website is split into five separate sections, that are simple to navigate and clear to understand.

1. **Landing Page**
- 
2. **Brief Page**
- 
3. **Information Architecture**

![Image]()

## Skeleton 
----------------
### **Wireframes** ###

The Skeleton of the project design was built utilising [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design-systems/). 
A detailed design breakdown can be seen [here.]()
The overall basic design breakpoints can be seen below:

![Image]()

The individual wireframes can be seen by following the links below:
- [xs]()
- [sm]()
- [md]()
- [lg]()
- [xl]()

### **Changes to initial wireframes** ###
A number of design edits were made throughout the project with the purpose of increased userability. 
 

## Surface 
----------------
Text
Text

Text
Text

**Colour Theme**

![Image]()

**Typography**

- The font used for both body and headings is [Lato
Designed by Łukasz Dziedzic](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato). This font was chosen for its clarity and modern feel.
The font is utilsed significantly in web design and I wanted the user to feel that the site was of high standard and relatively familiar.
The site also has 'Sans Serif' as an alternative font.

# **Features**
----------------

## 1. Navigation
Text

Text

Text

----------------
## 2. Landing Page

Text

Text

![Image]()

----------------
## 3. Search page

Text

Text


![Image](assets/images/README_images/features/techcard.png)



## 7. Future Features



# **Technologies**
## Languages
---------------
For this project two languages were used:
- [HTML](https://www.w3schools.com/html/#:~:text=HTML%20is%20the%20standard%20markup,learn%20%2D%20You%20will%20enjoy%20it!)
- [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/css/)

## Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies
---------------
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Bootstrap was used to for its wasy to use grid and repsonsive layout. Elelments of the navbar, cards and forms were taken from the Bootstrap V5.0 CDN.

- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma was used to create initial design and wireframes for different breakpoints.

- [Logomakr](https://logomakr.com) - The fictional brand logo was created on 'LogoMakr'.

- [Coolors](https://coolors.co) - Used to create colour palette and test colour themes.

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - Used to source high quality images.

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Google font 'Lato' was included in the project.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - All icons used throughout the project come from fontawesome.

- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Used for aspects of userability.

- [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/examples/quick-start/) - Leaflet was used for the map in the contact section. Due to my lacking experience with JavaScript, this had to be imported and edited to suit the loction of this project.

- [Maptiler Cloud](https://cloud.maptiler.com/maps/streets/) - Leaflet uses maptiler cloud to tile the map view.

- [Mock-Up Generator](https://techsini.com/multi-mockup/index.php) - Used for title photo.

## Workspace and Version Control
--------------------
- [Github](https://github.com/) - The project is hosted on Github and the live website is worked through Github pages.

- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - The project used Gitpod IDE for build and development. 

# **Testing**
## Code Validators 
---------------
A number of code validation techniques were utilised to ensure proper testing of site. 
For HTML and CSS, I used the [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org) and [W3C CSS Validation Services](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/). 
These tests returned no errors. See below for results.

- [HTML Test]()
- [CSS Test]()

A Chrome Developer Tools "Lighthouse" Test was aslo completed to test for accessibility and performance. 
The results are seen below. Initial testing showed a low value of SEO and accessibility. This was rectified by 
adding missing alt labels and adding a meta description. Although, the accessibility number is still below 90,
this is an area I wish to improve on going forward with the design of the site. 

![Image]()

## Responsive Elements 
--------------

The responsivity of the page was tested primarily using [Google Chrome Dev Tools]() and manual resizing of windows. The test provided positive results for each 
device option. The responsive breakpoints and resizing worked throughout the site. The site was shared with colleagues and friends and tested 
on their devices. An error on IOS with images was found through these tests. A fix for that problem is referred to in the relevant section below.

Other tools utilised to test responsivity are seen here:
- [Screenfly](https://bluetree.ai/screenfly/) - [Result]()
- [Responsinator](http://www.responsinator.com) - [Result]()
  

## UX User Story Test
--------------
The user stories previously laid out in the UX Design section are tested, to ensure that project achieves the user goals.

__Applicable to all users__


__Returning Users__


## Manual Testing
--------------
**Browser testing** 


**Functionality testing**


## Bugs and Fixes 
--------------


# Deployment 

## Github Pages Deployment:


## Forking The Repository:


## Creating a local clone:




# **Credits**
## Content
--------------
 
## Media 
--------------


## Acknowledgements
--------------
Thanks to my family and friends who devoted their time to test the page and proof-read over text. 
Thanks to the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) for the tutorials and resources. 
Thanks again to my mentor [Oluwafemi Medale](https://github.com/omedale) for valuable insight and support.

Commit message:

Strategy and scope sections from word document

README.md, after:

# **Wx AeroBrief**

## **[View the Live Website Here!]()** ##

![Image]()

## **Code Institute Milestone 2 Project - Interactive Frontend Development**

The project has been undertaken to build an efficient and simple weather briefing website for pilots. The site is named "Wx AeroBrief", where 'WX' is an abbreviation fo weather. The site aims to be a contrast to other aviation weather sites, where the content can be overwhelming and the user-interface outdated.

The site is broken down into two pages, the landing page and the briefing page. Both pages aim to intice the user to utilise the functions provided and display a professional but approachable user interface. The pages also cater for a user who may not be familiar with aviation terminology and therefore enables the user to learn more. 

Overall, the websites purpose is present the critical information needed for a weather brief in simple and digestable format.


# Table of Contents:

- [**UX**](#ux)
  * [User Stories](#user-stories)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Scope](#scope)
  * [Structure](#structure)
  * [Skeleton](#skeleton)
    + [**Wireframes**](#--wireframes--)
    + [**Changes to initial wireframes**](#--changes-to-initial-wireframes--)
  * [Surface](#surface)
- [**Features**](#features)
  * [1. Navigation](#1-navigation)
  * [2. Landing Page](#2-landing-page)
  * [3. Our Services](#3-our-services)
  * [4. Our Renewable Technology](#4-our-renewable-technology)
  * [5. About us / Meet the team](#5-about-us---meet-the-team)
  * [6. Get in touch](#6-get-in-touch)
  * [7. Future Features](#7-future-features)
- [**Technologies**](#technologies-used)
  * [Languages](#languages)
  * [Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies](#libraries--frameworks-and-technologies)
  * [Workspace and Version Control](#workspace-and-version-control)
- [**Testing**](#testing)
  * [Code Validators](#code-validators)
  * [Responsive Elements](#responsive-elements)
  * [UX User Story Test](#ux-user-story-test)
  * [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  * [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
- [**Deployment**](#deployment)
  * [Github Pages Deployment:](#github-pages-deployment-)
  * [Forking The Repository:](#forking-the-repository-)
  * [Creating a local clone:](#creating-a-local-clone-)
- [**Credits**](#credits)
  * [Content](#content)
  * [Media](#media)
  * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


# **UX**
## User Stories
----------------
In this project there are three main groups of target users. They include professional pilots, training students and casual general users. The user stories for each group are defined below.

__Applicable to all users__
- As a user, I would like to understand the purpose of the website on landing on the page.
- As a user, I would like to get the information I require quickly and effectively.
- As a user, I require the information in standard industry format. ie in METAR and TAF.
- As a user, I need to be able to search for my relevant airfield.
- As a user, I would like to see additional data such as the location, to gain a greater situational awareness.
- As a user, the ability to email or print my brief is important.

__Professional Pilots__
- As a professional pilot, the ability to see the weather forecast is vital to safe operation of my flight.
- As a professional pilot, additional information about my airfield is important.
- As a professional pilot, I require information for a specific reporting point and not necessarily for a large region.

__Training and Students__
- As a student, I would like the ability to learn more about weather reports and standard industry practice.
- As a student, I am not as proficient in flying and require a set of rules to go flying. Knowing that condtions are safe for me to fly is vital.
- As a student, simple and disgestable content would be effective in my learning application.

__General user__
- As a general user, I do not need overwhelming amounts of content or and do not want to research how to read the weather.

__Returning Users__
- As a returning user, I would like to be able to quickly navigate to the briefing page.


## Strategy
----------------
__Project goals__

The aim of this project is present aviation weather briefing information in a simple and clear but professional way. It was important to create a user-friendly and approachable site with a modern design and feel. The critical data had to be presented to the user in a way that they are familar with. This in-effect makes the site very accessible to people who understand the industry and the standard operating procedures. 

The content of the site therefore had to include;
- ICAO designated airfield weather reporting.
- METAR - Meteorological Terminal Air Report in decoded or coded format.
- TAF - Terminal Aerodrome Forecast in coded form.

Additionally content that may be of use is;
- The location by latitude and longitude.
- An area map.

__User goals__ 

The user goals will be met by enabling the user get access to the required data in a clear and concise format. The users require key data and an efficient user experience. The users goals will be achieved through a basic structure that divides the data into easily disgestable sections and enables the user to gain only they information they require. 

The ensure the user needs are met the site will be a simple landing page and then briefing page in the style of a dashboard of information. 

__Research__

Through prior experience with aviation weather briefing websites and apps, I had an understanding that there is a significant gap in the market for a user-friendly and simple briefing site. Most aviation weather apps are difficult to use, their design is outdated and the key information can be buried in content. Therefore a priority in the design of the site is simplicity and an efficent user-experience. A modern and light design combined with key data for the user makes the site stand out compared to the apps that were researched. 


## Scope 
----------------
Based on the strategy of the project, a number key requirements were laid out. The site is built for purpose and the data should be reliable and accurate as possible. The scope therefore includes:
- A landing page detailing what parameter will be needed to use the site. ie the ICAO code.
- A section detailing what an ICAO code is and some examples for users who are not familiar. However, it should be noted that an aviation professional or student would know their relevant ICAO code.
- A section for a decoded METAR, displaying key wind, clouds, pressure, temperature and conditions.
- A section for a TAF, showing the relevant forecast window and the coded TAF forecast.
- An interactive satellite map of the aerodrome.
- The aerodrome co-ordinates and elevation above sea level.
- Form for emailing that is fully functional.
- Print function to enable the user to print directly from browser.
- A search bar to input any relevant ICAO code.
- A popover that enables the user to learn more about METARS and TAFS.



## Structure
----------------

The structure of the page is formed around a single page scrolling design, with fixed sticky navbar that collapses to burger menu on 
tablet and desktop. The website is split into five separate sections, that are simple to navigate and clear to understand.

1. **Landing Page**
- 
2. **Brief Page**
- 
3. **Information Architecture**

![Image]()

## Skeleton 
----------------
### **Wireframes** ###

The Skeleton of the project design was built utilising [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design-systems/). 
A detailed design breakdown can be seen [here.]()
The overall basic design breakpoints can be seen below:

![Image]()

The individual wireframes can be seen by following the links below:
- [xs]()
- [sm]()
- [md]()
- [lg]()
- [xl]()

### **Changes to initial wireframes** ###
A number of design edits were made throughout the project with the purpose of increased userability. 
 

## Surface 
----------------
Text
Text

Text
Text

**Colour Theme**

![Image]()

**Typography**

- The font used for both body and headings is [Lato
Designed by Łukasz Dziedzic](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato). This font was chosen for its clarity and modern feel.
The font is utilsed significantly in web design and I wanted the user to feel that the site was of high standard and relatively familiar.
The site also has 'Sans Serif' as an alternative font.

# **Features**
----------------

## 1. Navigation
Text

Text

Text

----------------
## 2. Landing Page

Text

Text

![Image]()

----------------
## 3. Search page

Text

Text


![Image](assets/images/README_images/features/techcard.png)



## 7. Future Features



# **Technologies**
## Languages
---------------
For this project two languages were used:
- [HTML](https://www.w3schools.com/html/#:~:text=HTML%20is%20the%20standard%20markup,learn%20%2D%20You%20will%20enjoy%20it!)
- [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/css/)

## Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies
---------------
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Bootstrap was used to for its wasy to use grid and repsonsive layout. Elelments of the navbar, cards and forms were taken from the Bootstrap V5.0 CDN.

- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma was used to create initial design and wireframes for different breakpoints.

- [Logomakr](https://logomakr.com) - The fictional brand logo was created on 'LogoMakr'.

- [Coolors](https://coolors.co) - Used to create colour palette and test colour themes.

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - Used to source high quality images.

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Google font 'Lato' was included in the project.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - All icons used throughout the project come from fontawesome.

- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Used for aspects of userability.

- [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/examples/quick-start/) - Leaflet was used for the map in the contact section. Due to my lacking experience with JavaScript, this had to be imported and edited to suit the loction of this project.

- [Maptiler Cloud](https://cloud.maptiler.com/maps/streets/) - Leaflet uses maptiler cloud to tile the map view.

- [Mock-Up Generator](https://techsini.com/multi-mockup/index.php) - Used for title photo.

## Workspace and Version Control
--------------------
- [Github](https://github.com/) - The project is hosted on Github and the live website is worked through Github pages.

- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - The project used Gitpod IDE for build and development. 

# **Testing**
## Code Validators 
---------------
A number of code validation techniques were utilised to ensure proper testing of site. 
For HTML and CSS, I used the [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org) and [W3C CSS Validation Services](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/). 
These tests returned no errors. See below for results.

- [HTML Test]()
- [CSS Test]()

A Chrome Developer Tools "Lighthouse" Test was aslo completed to test for accessibility and performance. 
The results are seen below. Initial testing showed a low value of SEO and accessibility. This was rectified by 
adding missing alt labels and adding a meta description. Although, the accessibility number is still below 90,
this is an area I wish to improve on going forward with the design of the site. 

![Image]()

## Responsive Elements 
--------------

The responsivity of the page was tested primarily using [Google Chrome Dev Tools]() and manual resizing of windows. The test provided positive results for each 
device option. The responsive breakpoints and resizing worked throughout the site. The site was shared with colleagues and friends and tested 
on their devices. An error on IOS with images was found through these tests. A fix for that problem is referred to in the relevant section below.

Other tools utilised to test responsivity are seen here:
- [Screenfly](https://bluetree.ai/screenfly/) - [Result]()
- [Responsinator](http://www.responsinator.com) - [Result]()
  

## UX User Story Test
--------------
The user stories previously laid out in the UX Design section are tested, to ensure that project achieves the user goals.

__Applicable to all users__


__Returning Users__


## Manual Testing
--------------
**Browser testing** 


**Functionality testing**


## Bugs and Fixes 
--------------


# Deployment 

## Github Pages Deployment:


## Forking The Repository:


## Creating a local clone:




# **Credits**
## Content
--------------
 
## Media 
--------------


## Acknowledgements
--------------
Thanks to my family and friends who devoted their time to test the page and proof-read over text. 
Thanks to the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) for the tutorials and resources. 
Thanks again to my mentor [Oluwafemi Medale](https://github.com/omedale) for valuable insight and support.
